**Kubernetes has a declarative interface.**

In other words, you describe how you want the deployment of your application to look like, and Kubernetes figures out the necessary steps to reach this state.

The "language" that you use to communciate with Kubernetes consists of so-called Kubernetes resources.

There are many different Kubernetes resources — each is responsible for a specific aspect of your application.

&nbsp;

Kubernetes resources are defined in YAML files and submitted to the cluster through the Kubernetes HTTP API.

&nbsp;

As soon as Kubernetes receives your resource definitions, it takes the necessary steps to reach the target state.

Similarly, to query the state of your applications, you retrieve Kubernetes resources through the Kubernetes HTTP API.

In practice, you do all these interactions with kubectl - your primary client for the Kubernetes API.

&nbsp;

&nbsp;

&nbsp;

**What is a Pod?**

**A Pod is a wrapper around one or more containers.**

Most often, a Pod contains only a single container — however, for advanced use cases, a Pod may contain multiple containers.

If a Pod contains multiple containers, they are treated by Kubernetes as a unit — for example, they are started and stopped together and executed on the same node.

*A Pod is the smallest unit of deployment in Kubernetes — you never work with containers directly, but with Pods that wrap containers.*

Technically, a <ins>Pod</ins> is a Kubernetes resource, like a Deployment or Service.

&nbsp;

&nbsp;