A **generic type** is a class or interface that is parameterized over types. For example, a generic class can work with any type specified by the user, and that type can be enforced at compile time.

The syntax for a generic type is:

```java
class ClassName<T> {
    // Class body
}
```

&nbsp;

Where `T` is the type parameter, which can be any valid identifier.

Conventionally, single-letter names are used for type parameters, such as

`T` for Type,

`E` for Element,

`K` for Key,

`V` for Value, etc.

&nbsp;

```java
public class Box<T> { //  one or more type parameters
//  These type parameters are placeholders that are replaced with specific types when the class is instantiated.
    private T value;

    public T getValue() {
        return value;
    }

    public void setValue(T value) {
        this.value = value;
    }
}

public class Main {
    public static void main(String[] args) {
        Box<Integer> box = new Box<>();  // Box is now type-safe
        box.setValue(1);  // No issue, it's an Integer
        Integer i = box.getValue();  // No casting needed
        System.out.println(i);
    }
}
```

&nbsp;

Here, `Box<T>` is a generic class.

The type parameter `T` will be replaced with a specific type when an object of `Box` is created.

Now, the `Box` class is type-safe, and we will not encounter the `ClassCastException` because the types are enforced at compile time.

&nbsp;

So, In simpler terms, **generics allow you to write code that can work with any object type while ensuring type safety at compile time.**

&nbsp;

Generics help us write more flexible and reusable code. For example, without generics, we would have to write multiple versions of the same class to handle different data types, leading to code duplication.

*A generic class can have more than one type parameter.*

&nbsp;

```java
class Pair<K, V> {
    private K key;
    private V value;

    public Pair(K key, V value) {
        this.key = key;
        this.value = value;
    }

    public K getKey() {
        return key;
    }

    public V getValue() {
        return value;
    }
}
```

&nbsp;

&nbsp;This class can be used to store pairs of related data (like key-value pairs).

```java
public class Main {
    public static void main(String[] args) {
        Pair<String, Integer> pair = new Pair<>("Age", 30);
        System.out.println("Key: " + pair.getKey());   // Prints: Key: Age
        System.out.println("Value: " + pair.getValue()); // Prints: Value: 30
    }
}
```

&nbsp;Here, the `Pair<K, V>` class has two type parameters `K` and `V`, and you can specify the types when you create an instance of `Pair`.

&nbsp;

**Type Parameter Naming Conventions**

While you can name type parameters anything, the convention is to use single letters that describe the purpose of the type parameter:

- `T`: Type
- `E`: Element (used in collections)
- `K`: Key (used in maps)
- `V`: Value (used in maps)
- `N`: Number

&nbsp;

# Generic Interface

A **generic interface** in Java allows you to define an interface with type parameters. This means that the interface can work with any type specified at the time of implementation. Generic interfaces are commonly used when the type of the objects that the interface deals with is not known until runtime.

&nbsp;

You declare a generic interface in the same way you would declare a generic class or method, using angle brackets `<>` to specify type parameters. Here's a basic example of a generic interface:

&nbsp;

```java
interface Container<T> {
    void add(T item);
    T get();
}
```

&nbsp;

In this example, `T` is the generic type parameter for the `Container` interface. The `add` method accepts an argument of type `T`, and the `get` method returns a value of type `T`.

&nbsp;

When you implement a generic interface, you need to specify the type for the generic parameter, or you can continue to make the implementation generic by using type parameters.

&nbsp;

**Implementing with a specific type**

```java
class StringContainer implements Container<String> {
    private String item;

    @Override
    public void add(String item) {
        this.item = item;
    }

    @Override
    public String get() {
        return item;
    }
}
```

&nbsp;

In this example, `StringContainer` implements the `Container` interface with `String` as the specified type parameter.

&nbsp;

**Implementing a generic interface generically**

```java
class GenericContainer<T> implements Container<T> {
    private T item;

    @Override
    public void add(T item) {
        this.item = item;
    }

    @Override
    public T get() {
        return item;
    }
}

```

&nbsp;In this case, the class `GenericContainer` remains generic and can work with any type, just like the `Container` interface.

&nbsp;

**Generic Interfaces with Multiple Type Parameters**

A generic interface can have multiple type parameters. This is useful when you need to work with more than one type in the same interface.

&nbsp;

```java
interface Pair {
    K getKey();
    V getValue();
}
```

&nbsp;

Here, the `Pair` interface defines two generic type parameters `K` and `V`. Implementing this interface will require specifying both types.

&nbsp;

```java
class KeyValuePair implements Pair {
    private K key;
    private V value;

    public KeyValuePair(K key, V value) {
        this.key = key;
        this.value = value;
    }

    @Override
    public K getKey() {
        return key;
    }

    @Override
    public V getValue() {
        return value;
    }
}
```

&nbsp;

You can create an instance of `KeyValuePair` like this:

&nbsp;

```java
Pair pair = new KeyValuePair<>("Age", 30);
System.out.println(pair.getKey() + ": " + pair.getValue());
```

&nbsp;

&nbsp;