In OAuth 2.0, grants are the set of steps a Client has to perform to get resource access authorization. The authorization framework provides several grant types to address different scenarios:

### Authorization Code grant:

The Authorization server returns a single-use Authorization Code to the Client, which is then exchanged for an Access Token.

This is the best option for traditional web apps where the exchange can securely happen on the server side. The Authorization Code flow might be used by Single Page Apps (SPA) and mobile/native apps.

However, here, the client secret cannot be stored securely, and so authentication, during the exchange, is limited to the use of client id alone. A better alternative is the Authorization Code with PKCE grant, below.

example:

  
*A user logs into a web application using their Google account. The application redirects the user to Google's login page, where they grant permission for the application to access their profile information. Google then issues a temporary code, which the application exchanges for an access token.*

**Implicit Grant:**

A simplified flow where the Access Token is returned directly to the Client.

In the Implicit flow, the authorization server may return the Access Token as a parameter in the callback URI or as a response to a form post. The first option is now deprecated due to potential token leakage.

example:

*A single-page application (SPA) running in a web browser needs to access a protected API. The SPA initiates the authorization process, and the user is redirected to the authorization server. Upon approval, the authorization server directly returns an access token to the SPA's browser.*

### Authorization Code Grant with Proof Key for Code Exchange (PKCE):

This authorization flow is similar to the Authorization Code grant, but with additional steps that make it more secure for mobile/native apps and SPAs.

### Resource Owner Credentials Grant Type:

This grant requires the Client first to acquire the resource owner’s credentials, which are passed to the Authorization server. It is, therefore, limited to Clients that are completely trusted. It has the advantage that no redirect to the Authorization server is involved, so it is applicable in the use cases where a redirect is infeasible.

example:  
*A first party(service of same company as authorization server) mobile app , service allows users to log in using their username and password. The application sends these credentials directly to the authorization server, which verifies them and issues an access token.*

### Client Credentials Grant Type:

Used for non-interactive applications e.g., automated processes, microservices, etc. In this case, the application is authenticated per se by using its client id and secret.

Example:

*A backend service needs to access a protected API to fetch data. The service authenticates itself using its client ID and secret, and the authorization server issues an access token to the service.*

### Device Authorization Flow:

A grant that enables use by apps on input-constrained devices, such as smart TVs.

example:  
*A user wants to connect their smart TV to a streaming service. The TV displays a code, which the user enters on the streaming service's website. The website then authorizes the TV to access the streaming service.*

### Refresh Token Grant:

The flow that involves the exchange of a Refresh Token for a new Access Token.

example: *A user logs into a mobile app using their social media account. The app receives an access token and a refresh token. When the access token expires, the app uses the refresh token to obtain a new access token without requiring the user to re-authenticate.*