Stack is automatically managed by OS rather than JVM.

Heap on the other hand is not automatically managed by OS.

JVM manages the Heap automatically using the garbage collection process.

The garbage collector in JVM is responsible for:

- Memory allocation from OS and back to OS.
- Handing out allocated memory to the application as it requests it.
- Determining which parts of the allocated memory is still in use by the application.
- Reclaiming the unused memory for reuse by the application.

Objects in Heap are grouped by their age and cleared at different stages. Mark & Sweep is commonly used algorithm for GC.

# **Mark & Sweep** :

JVM uses a separate daemon thread that runs in the background for garbage collection and the process runs when certain conditions are met.

- **Marking**: First step where garbage collector identifies which objects are in use and which ones are not in use. The objects in use or reachable from GC roots(Stack pointers) recursively are marked as alive. static fields are there generally at the root.
- **Sweeping**: The garbage collector traverses the heap and removes any object that is not marked alive. This space is now marked as free.
- **Compacting**: After deleting unused objects, all the survived objects will be moved to be together. This will decrease fragmentation and increase the performance of allocation of memory to newer objects

## GC process:

JVM has two types of GC process depending on when and where its performed, the minor GC and major GC.

### Minor GC

This type of GC keeps the young generation space compact and clean. This is triggered when the below conditions are met:

- JVM is not able to get the required memory from the Eden space to allocate a new object

### Major GC

This type of GC keeps the old generation(Tenured) space compact and clean.

- Dev calls`System.gc()`,or`Runtime.getRunTime().gc()`from the program.